README.md, before:

# Publications

In this repo you will find some of the publications that I have done during my career.

*NOTE: This document is automatically generated. I use `pandoc` to convert the publications in `bibtex` format. To see how I did it, take a look at [this guide](bibtex/README.md).*

More information about my scientific career can be found in my personal page at [RoboticsLab](http://roboticslab.uc3m.es/roboticslab/people/m-gonzalez-fierro) research group from Universidad Carlos III de Madrid and [ThrishLab](http://thrish.org/additional-researchers/miguel-gonzalez-fierro) research group from King's College London (now at Imperial College).


## Conferences


\[1\] M. Salvaris, I. Karmanov, and M. González-Fierro, "Distributed Training of Deep Learning Models", *Strata Data Conference London*, 2018. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/distributed-training-of-deep-learning-models" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/distributed-training-of-deep-learning-models</a>

\[2\] Y. Xing, M. González-Fierro, P. Xia, and T. Wu, "Transfer Learning and Fine Tuning of Pre-trained DNN Models on Kaggle Airport Passenger Screening Challenge", *The Thirty-First Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems NIPS 2017*, 2017.

\[3\] M. González-Fierro, "Running Intelligent Applications inside a Database: Deep Learning with Python Stored Procedures in SQL", *Open Data Science Conference ODSC London 2017*, 2017. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/running-intelligent-applications-inside-a-database-deep-learning-with-python-stored-procedures-in-sql" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/running-intelligent-applications-inside-a-database-deep-learning-with-python-stored-procedures-in-sql</a>

\[4\] Y. Xing, M. González-Fierro, P. Xia, and T. Wu, "Transfer Learning and Fine Tuning of Pre-trained DNN Models on Kaggle Airport Passenger Screening Challenge Using Azure Machine Learning Workbench", *Machine Learning and Data Science Conference MLADS Redmond 2017*, 2017.

\[5\] M. González-Fierro, "Deep Learning for Sales Professionals", *Intelligent Cloud GBB Ready Lisbon*, 2017. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/deep-learning-for-sales-professionals" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/deep-learning-for-sales-professionals</a>

\[6\] A. Taylor and M. González-Fierro, "Deep Learning for Natural Language Processing in R", *Brussels UseR! 2017*, 2017.

\[7\] M. González-Fierro, "Mastering Computer Vision Problems with State-of-the-art Deep Learning", *Strata Data Conference London*, 2017. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/mastering-computer-vision-problems-with-stateoftheart-deep-learning" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/mastering-computer-vision-problems-with-stateoftheart-deep-learning</a>

\[8\] M. Salvaris and M. González-Fierro, "Speeding up Machine Learning Applications with the LightGBM Library", *Strata Data Conference London*, 2017. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/speeding-up-machinelearning-applications-with-the-lightgbm-library" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/speeding-up-machinelearning-applications-with-the-lightgbm-library</a>

\[9\] M. González-Fierro, "Deep Learning for Lung Cancer Detection", *AI Immersion Workshop. Microsoft Build Conference 2017*, 2017. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/deep-learning-for-lung-cancer-detection" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/deep-learning-for-lung-cancer-detection</a>

\[10\] M. González-Fierro, Y. Xing, and T. Wu, "Getting Started on a Lung Cancer Detection Competition in One Hour Using Cognitive Toolkit and DSVM", *The Data Platform Show*, 2017.

\[11\] M. González-Fierro and D. Dean, "Democratizing Intelligence in the World of Predictive, Cognitive and Advanced Analytics", *Data 360 - A Virtual Summit on Data. Data Digital Event Bangalore*, 2016.

\[12\] M. González-Fierro, M. Kaznady, and A. Argyriou, "Implementing Large Scale Image Classification with Deep Learning on the Azure Cloud, Microsoft R Server and Spark", *Machine Learning and Data Science Conference MLADS Redmond 2016*, 2016.

\[13\] T. Delteil and M. González-Fierro, "Deep Learning for Natural Language Processing", *Open Data Science Conference ODSC London 2016*, 2016. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/deep-learning-for-nlp-67182819" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/deep-learning-for-nlp-67182819</a>

\[14\] M. González-Fierro, "Leveraging Deep Learning for Applications", *Machine Learning and Data Science Conference MLADS Bangalore 2016*, 2016.

\[15\] M. González-Fierro, C. A. Monje, and C. Balaguer, "Robust Control of a Reduced Humanoid Robot Model using Genetic Algorithms and Fractional Calculus", *Mathematical Methods in Engineering International Conference MME2013*, 2013, pp. 183-194. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013robust.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013robust.pdf</a>

\[16\] M. González-Fierro, M. A. Maldonado, J. G. Víctores, S. Morante, and C. Balaguer, "Object Tagging for Human-Robot Interaction by Recolorization using Gaussian Mixture Models", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 12th Workshop: Robótica Cognitiva*, 2013, pp. 67-76. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013object.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013object.pdf</a>

\[17\] M. González-Fierro, C. Balaguer, N. Swann, and T. Nanayakkara, "A Humanoid Robot Standing Up Through Learning from Demonstration Using a Multimodal Reward Function", *IEEE-RAS International Conference on Humanoid Robots, 2013. Humanoids 2013*, 2013, pp. 74-79. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013humanoid.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013humanoid.pdf</a>

\[18\] M. González-Fierro, C. Monje, V. González, and C. Balaguer, "Evolutionary Fractional Order Control of a Humanoid Robot Modeled as a Triple Inverted Pendulum", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 11th Workshop: Robots Sociales*, 2013, pp. 245-263. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013evolutionary.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013evolutionary.pdf</a>

\[19\] M. González-Fierro, J. Bueno, C. Balaguer, and L. Moreno, "A Complete 3D Perception and Path Planning Architecture for a Humanoid", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 11th Workshop: Robots Sociales*, 2013, pp. 167-184. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013complete.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013complete.pdf</a>

\[20\] J. Bueno, A. Martín, M. González-Fierro, L. Moreno, and C. Balaguer, "Distinguishing between Similar Objects based on Geometrical Features in 3D Perception", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 12th Workshop: Robótica Cognitiva*, 2013, pp. 77-92. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/bueno2013distinguishing.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/bueno2013distinguishing.pdf</a>

\[21\] M. González-Fierro, D. Hernández, P. Pierro, and C. Balaguer, "Dynamic Modelling of Humanoid Robots Using Spatial Algebra", *XXXIII Jornadas de Automática*, 2012. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalezfierro2012dynamic.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalezfierro2012dynamic.pdf</a>

\[22\] J. G. Víctores, S. Morante, M. González-Fierro, and C. Balaguer, "Augmented Reality and Social Interaction platform through Multirobot Design", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 11th Workshop: Robots Sociales*, 2013, pp. 131-143. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/victores2013augmented.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/victores2013augmented.pdf</a>

\[23\] D. Herrero, P. Pierro, M. González-Fierro, D. Hernández, and C. Balaguer, "Perception System for Working with Humanoid Robots in Unstructured Collaborative Scenarios", *Proceedings of the 2012 International IEEE Intelligent Vehicles Symposium. Workshops V Perception in Robotics*, 2012.

\[24\] J. G. Bueno, M. González-Fierro, L. Moreno, and C. Balaguer, "Facial Gesture Recognition using Active Appearance Models based on Neural Evolution", *2012 International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction (HRI 2012)*, 2012, pp. 133-134. Available online: <a href="http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2157689.2157721" class="uri" class="uri">http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2157689.2157721</a>

\[25\] C. A. Monje, P. Pierro, T. Ramos, M. González-Fierro, and C. Balaguer, "Modeling and Simulation of the Humanoid Robot HOAP-3 in the OpenHRP3 Platform", *Proceedings of Robot 2011. Workshop Robots Humanoides*, 2011. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/monje2011modeling.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/monje2011modeling.pdf</a>

\[26\] J. G. Bueno, M. González-Fierro, L. Moreno, and C. Balaguer, "Facial Gesture Recognition and Postural Interaction using Neural Evolution Algorithm and Active Appearance Models", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 9th Workshop: Robots Colaborativos e Interacción Humano-Robot*, 2011, pp. 145-159. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/bueno2011facial.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/bueno2011facial.pdf</a>

\[27\] M. González-Fierro, A. Jardón, S. Martínez de la Casa, M. F. Stoelen, J. G. Víctores, and C. Balaguer, "Educational Initiatives Related with the CEABOT Contest", *Proceedings of SIMPAR*, 2010, pp. 649-658. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalezfierro2010educational.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalezfierro2010educational.pdf</a>

\[28\] A. Peña, D. Hernández, M. González-Fierro, P. Pierro, and C. Balaguer, "Sistema de Visión del Humanoide HOAP-3 para la Detección e Identificación de Objetos Mediante Librerías OpenCV", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 7th Workshop: Vision en Robótica*, 2010. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/pena2010sistema.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/pena2010sistema.pdf</a>

\[29\] A. P. Mateo, M. González-Fierro, D. Hernández, P. Pierro, and C. Balaguer, "Robust Real Time Stabilization: Estabilización de la Imagen con Aplicación en el Robot Humanoide HOAP-3", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 7th Workshop: Vision en Robótica*, 2010. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/mateo2010robust.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/mateo2010robust.pdf</a>

\[30\] M. González-Fierro, P. Pierro, A. Jardón, D. Herrero, and C. Balaguer, "Realización de Tareas Colaborativas entre Robots Humanoides. Experimentación con Dos Robots Robonova", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 5th Workshop: Cooperación en Robótica*, 2009. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2009realizacion" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2009realizacion</a>

\[31\] P. Pierro, D. Hernández, M. González-Fierro, L. Blasi, A. Milani, and C. Balaguer, "A Human-Humanoid Interface for Collaborative Tasks", *Proceedings on the Second Workshop for Young Researchers on Human-Friendly Robotics*, 2009. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/pierro2009human.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/pierro2009human.pdf</a>

\[32\] P. Pierro, D. Hernández, M. González-Fierro, L. Blasi, A. Milani, and C. Balaguer, "Humanoid Teleoperation System for Space Environments", *Advanced Robotics, 2009. ICAR 2009. International Conference on*, 2009, pp. 1-6. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/pierro2009humanoid.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/pierro2009humanoid.pdf</a>

\[33\] P. Pierro, M. González-Fierro, and C. Balaguer, "El Proyecto Europeo ROBOT@CWE: Advanced Robotic Systems in Future Collaborative Working Environments", *II Workshop de Robótica (ROBOT 2009)*, 2009.


## Scientific Journals

\[1\] M. González-Fierro, C. Monje, and C. Balaguer, "Fractional Control of a Humanoid Robot Reduced Model with Model Disturbances", *Journal of Cybernetics and Systems*, vol. 47, n.º 6, pp. 445-459, 2016. Available online: <a href="http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/01969722.2016.1187031" class="uri" class="uri">http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/01969722.2016.1187031</a>

\[2\] M. González-Fierro, D. Hernández, T. Nanayakkara, and C. Balaguer, "Behavior Sequencing Based on Demonstrations - a Case of a Humanoid Opening a Door While Walking", *Advanced Robotics*, vol. 29, n.º 5, pp. 315-329, 2015. Available online: <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01691864.2014.992955" class="uri" class="uri">http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01691864.2014.992955</a>

\[3\] M. González-Fierro, C. Balaguer, N. Swann, and T. Nanayakkara, "Full-Body Postural Control of a Humanoid Robot with Both Imitation Learning and Skill Innovation", *International Journal of Humanoid Robotics*, vol. 11, n.º 2, p. 1450012, 2014. Available online: <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1142/S0219843614500121" class="uri" class="uri">http://dx.doi.org/10.1142/S0219843614500121</a>

\[4\] J. G. Bueno, M. González-Fierro, L. Moreno, and C. Balaguer, "Facial Emotion Recognition and Adaptative Postural Reaction by a Humanoid based on Neural Evolution", *International Journal of Advanced Computer Science*, vol. 3, n.º 10, pp. 481-493, 2013. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/bueno2013facial.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/bueno2013facial.pdf</a>

\[5\] C. A. Monje, P. Pierro, T. Ramos, M. González-Fierro, and C. Balaguer, "Modeling and Simulation of the Humanoid Robot HOAP-3 in the OpenHRP3 Platform", *Cybernetics and Systems*, vol. 44, n.º 8, pp. 663-680, 2013. Available online: <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01969722.2013.832095" class="uri" class="uri">http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01969722.2013.832095</a>


## Thesis

\[1\] M. González-Fierro, "Humanoid Robot Control of Complex Postural Tasks Based on Learning From Demonstrations", *Ph.D. Thesis*, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, 2014. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2014thesis.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2014thesis.pdf</a>

\[2\] M. González-Fierro, "Dynamic Modeling of Humanoid Robots through Spatial Algebra (in Spanish)", *Master’s Thesis*, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, 2009. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2009master.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2009master.pdf</a>

\[3\] M. González-Fierro, "Realización de Tareas Colaborativas en Robonova usando FSRs", *Master’s Thesis*, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, 2008.


## Blog posts

I have my [personal blog](https://miguelgfierro.com) where I write about artificial intelligence, machine learning, technical business and other random stuff that comes to my mind. The blog has been designed to mimic the appearance of a scientific paper. I did it that way to honor my scientific background. The code is open sourced and can be found in [this repo](https://github.com/miguelgfierro/sciblog).

Here there are some posts that attracted attention:

* [A Gentle Introduction to the Basics of Machine Learning](https://miguelgfierro.com/blog/2016/a-gentle-introduction-to-the-basics-of-machine-learning/).
* [A Gentle Introduction to Text Classification and Sentiment Analysis](https://miguelgfierro.com/blog/2017/a-gentle-introduction-to-text-classification-and-sentiment-analysis/).
* [How to Develop a Data Science Project using the Lean Startup Method](https://miguelgfierro.com/blog/2016/how-to-develop-a-data-science-project-using-the-lean-startup-method/).

I also contributed to other blog posts:

* [Comparing Deep Learning Frameworks: A Rosetta Stone Approach](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2018/03/14/comparing-deep-learning-frameworks-a-rosetta-stone-approach/)

* [Lessons Learned From Benchmarking Fast Machine Learning Algorithms](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2017/07/25/lessons-learned-benchmarking-fast-machine-learning-algorithms/)

* [Quick-Start Guide to the Data Science Bowl Lung Cancer Detection Challenge, Using Deep Learning, Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit and Azure GPU VMs](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2017/02/17/quick-start-guide-to-the-data-science-bowl-lung-cancer-detection-challenge-using-deep-learning-microsoft-cognitive-toolkit-and-azure-gpu-vms/)

* [Cloud-Scale Text Classification with Convolutional Neural Networks on Microsoft Azure](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2017/02/13/cloud-scale-text-classification-with-convolutional-neural-networks-on-microsoft-azure/)

* [Training Deep Neural Networks on ImageNet Using Microsoft R Server and Azure GPU VMs](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2016/11/15/imagenet-deep-neural-network-training-using-microsoft-r-server-and-azure-gpu-vms/)

* [Applying Deep Learning at Cloud Scale, with Microsoft R Server & Azure Data Lake](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2016/10/31/applying-cloud-deep-learning-at-scale-with-microsoft-r-server-azure-data-lake/)

* [Building Deep Neural Networks in the Cloud with Azure GPU VMs, MXNet and Microsoft R Server](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2016/09/15/building-deep-neural-networks-in-the-cloud-with-azure-gpu-vms-mxnet-and-microsoft-r-server/)

Commit message:

changed industrial engineering tfinal degree project to spanish

README.md, after:

# Publications

In this repo you will find some of the publications that I have done during my career.

*NOTE: This document is automatically generated. I use `pandoc` to convert the publications in `bibtex` format. To see how I did it, take a look at [this guide](bibtex/README.md).*

More information about my scientific career can be found in my personal page at [RoboticsLab](http://roboticslab.uc3m.es/roboticslab/people/m-gonzalez-fierro) research group from Universidad Carlos III de Madrid and [ThrishLab](http://thrish.org/additional-researchers/miguel-gonzalez-fierro) research group from King's College London (now at Imperial College).


## Conferences


\[1\] M. Salvaris, I. Karmanov, and M. González-Fierro, "Distributed Training of Deep Learning Models", *Strata Data Conference London*, 2018. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/distributed-training-of-deep-learning-models" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/distributed-training-of-deep-learning-models</a>

\[2\] Y. Xing, M. González-Fierro, P. Xia, and T. Wu, "Transfer Learning and Fine Tuning of Pre-trained DNN Models on Kaggle Airport Passenger Screening Challenge", *The Thirty-First Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems NIPS 2017*, 2017.

\[3\] M. González-Fierro, "Running Intelligent Applications inside a Database: Deep Learning with Python Stored Procedures in SQL", *Open Data Science Conference ODSC London 2017*, 2017. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/running-intelligent-applications-inside-a-database-deep-learning-with-python-stored-procedures-in-sql" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/running-intelligent-applications-inside-a-database-deep-learning-with-python-stored-procedures-in-sql</a>

\[4\] Y. Xing, M. González-Fierro, P. Xia, and T. Wu, "Transfer Learning and Fine Tuning of Pre-trained DNN Models on Kaggle Airport Passenger Screening Challenge Using Azure Machine Learning Workbench", *Machine Learning and Data Science Conference MLADS Redmond 2017*, 2017.

\[5\] M. González-Fierro, "Deep Learning for Sales Professionals", *Intelligent Cloud GBB Ready Lisbon*, 2017. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/deep-learning-for-sales-professionals" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/deep-learning-for-sales-professionals</a>

\[6\] A. Taylor and M. González-Fierro, "Deep Learning for Natural Language Processing in R", *Brussels UseR! 2017*, 2017.

\[7\] M. González-Fierro, "Mastering Computer Vision Problems with State-of-the-art Deep Learning", *Strata Data Conference London*, 2017. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/mastering-computer-vision-problems-with-stateoftheart-deep-learning" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/mastering-computer-vision-problems-with-stateoftheart-deep-learning</a>

\[8\] M. Salvaris and M. González-Fierro, "Speeding up Machine Learning Applications with the LightGBM Library", *Strata Data Conference London*, 2017. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/speeding-up-machinelearning-applications-with-the-lightgbm-library" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/speeding-up-machinelearning-applications-with-the-lightgbm-library</a>

\[9\] M. González-Fierro, "Deep Learning for Lung Cancer Detection", *AI Immersion Workshop. Microsoft Build Conference 2017*, 2017. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/deep-learning-for-lung-cancer-detection" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/deep-learning-for-lung-cancer-detection</a>

\[10\] M. González-Fierro, Y. Xing, and T. Wu, "Getting Started on a Lung Cancer Detection Competition in One Hour Using Cognitive Toolkit and DSVM", *The Data Platform Show*, 2017.

\[11\] M. González-Fierro and D. Dean, "Democratizing Intelligence in the World of Predictive, Cognitive and Advanced Analytics", *Data 360 - A Virtual Summit on Data. Data Digital Event Bangalore*, 2016.

\[12\] M. González-Fierro, M. Kaznady, and A. Argyriou, "Implementing Large Scale Image Classification with Deep Learning on the Azure Cloud, Microsoft R Server and Spark", *Machine Learning and Data Science Conference MLADS Redmond 2016*, 2016.

\[13\] T. Delteil and M. González-Fierro, "Deep Learning for Natural Language Processing", *Open Data Science Conference ODSC London 2016*, 2016. Available online: <a href="https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/deep-learning-for-nlp-67182819" class="uri" class="uri">https://www.slideshare.net/MiguelFierro1/deep-learning-for-nlp-67182819</a>

\[14\] M. González-Fierro, "Leveraging Deep Learning for Applications", *Machine Learning and Data Science Conference MLADS Bangalore 2016*, 2016.

\[15\] M. González-Fierro, C. A. Monje, and C. Balaguer, "Robust Control of a Reduced Humanoid Robot Model using Genetic Algorithms and Fractional Calculus", *Mathematical Methods in Engineering International Conference MME2013*, 2013, pp. 183-194. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013robust.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013robust.pdf</a>

\[16\] M. González-Fierro, M. A. Maldonado, J. G. Víctores, S. Morante, and C. Balaguer, "Object Tagging for Human-Robot Interaction by Recolorization using Gaussian Mixture Models", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 12th Workshop: Robótica Cognitiva*, 2013, pp. 67-76. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013object.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013object.pdf</a>

\[17\] M. González-Fierro, C. Balaguer, N. Swann, and T. Nanayakkara, "A Humanoid Robot Standing Up Through Learning from Demonstration Using a Multimodal Reward Function", *IEEE-RAS International Conference on Humanoid Robots, 2013. Humanoids 2013*, 2013, pp. 74-79. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013humanoid.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013humanoid.pdf</a>

\[18\] M. González-Fierro, C. Monje, V. González, and C. Balaguer, "Evolutionary Fractional Order Control of a Humanoid Robot Modeled as a Triple Inverted Pendulum", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 11th Workshop: Robots Sociales*, 2013, pp. 245-263. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013evolutionary.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013evolutionary.pdf</a>

\[19\] M. González-Fierro, J. Bueno, C. Balaguer, and L. Moreno, "A Complete 3D Perception and Path Planning Architecture for a Humanoid", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 11th Workshop: Robots Sociales*, 2013, pp. 167-184. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013complete.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2013complete.pdf</a>

\[20\] J. Bueno, A. Martín, M. González-Fierro, L. Moreno, and C. Balaguer, "Distinguishing between Similar Objects based on Geometrical Features in 3D Perception", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 12th Workshop: Robótica Cognitiva*, 2013, pp. 77-92. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/bueno2013distinguishing.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/bueno2013distinguishing.pdf</a>

\[21\] M. González-Fierro, D. Hernández, P. Pierro, and C. Balaguer, "Dynamic Modelling of Humanoid Robots Using Spatial Algebra", *XXXIII Jornadas de Automática*, 2012. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalezfierro2012dynamic.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalezfierro2012dynamic.pdf</a>

\[22\] J. G. Víctores, S. Morante, M. González-Fierro, and C. Balaguer, "Augmented Reality and Social Interaction platform through Multirobot Design", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 11th Workshop: Robots Sociales*, 2013, pp. 131-143. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/victores2013augmented.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/victores2013augmented.pdf</a>

\[23\] D. Herrero, P. Pierro, M. González-Fierro, D. Hernández, and C. Balaguer, "Perception System for Working with Humanoid Robots in Unstructured Collaborative Scenarios", *Proceedings of the 2012 International IEEE Intelligent Vehicles Symposium. Workshops V Perception in Robotics*, 2012.

\[24\] J. G. Bueno, M. González-Fierro, L. Moreno, and C. Balaguer, "Facial Gesture Recognition using Active Appearance Models based on Neural Evolution", *2012 International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction (HRI 2012)*, 2012, pp. 133-134. Available online: <a href="http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2157689.2157721" class="uri" class="uri">http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2157689.2157721</a>

\[25\] C. A. Monje, P. Pierro, T. Ramos, M. González-Fierro, and C. Balaguer, "Modeling and Simulation of the Humanoid Robot HOAP-3 in the OpenHRP3 Platform", *Proceedings of Robot 2011. Workshop Robots Humanoides*, 2011. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/monje2011modeling.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/monje2011modeling.pdf</a>

\[26\] J. G. Bueno, M. González-Fierro, L. Moreno, and C. Balaguer, "Facial Gesture Recognition and Postural Interaction using Neural Evolution Algorithm and Active Appearance Models", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 9th Workshop: Robots Colaborativos e Interacción Humano-Robot*, 2011, pp. 145-159. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/bueno2011facial.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/bueno2011facial.pdf</a>

\[27\] M. González-Fierro, A. Jardón, S. Martínez de la Casa, M. F. Stoelen, J. G. Víctores, and C. Balaguer, "Educational Initiatives Related with the CEABOT Contest", *Proceedings of SIMPAR*, 2010, pp. 649-658. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalezfierro2010educational.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalezfierro2010educational.pdf</a>

\[28\] A. Peña, D. Hernández, M. González-Fierro, P. Pierro, and C. Balaguer, "Sistema de Visión del Humanoide HOAP-3 para la Detección e Identificación de Objetos Mediante Librerías OpenCV", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 7th Workshop: Vision en Robótica*, 2010. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/pena2010sistema.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/pena2010sistema.pdf</a>

\[29\] A. P. Mateo, M. González-Fierro, D. Hernández, P. Pierro, and C. Balaguer, "Robust Real Time Stabilization: Estabilización de la Imagen con Aplicación en el Robot Humanoide HOAP-3", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 7th Workshop: Vision en Robótica*, 2010. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/mateo2010robust.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/mateo2010robust.pdf</a>

\[30\] M. González-Fierro, P. Pierro, A. Jardón, D. Herrero, and C. Balaguer, "Realización de Tareas Colaborativas entre Robots Humanoides. Experimentación con Dos Robots Robonova", *Proceedings of Robocity2030 5th Workshop: Cooperación en Robótica*, 2009. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2009realizacion" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2009realizacion</a>

\[31\] P. Pierro, D. Hernández, M. González-Fierro, L. Blasi, A. Milani, and C. Balaguer, "A Human-Humanoid Interface for Collaborative Tasks", *Proceedings on the Second Workshop for Young Researchers on Human-Friendly Robotics*, 2009. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/pierro2009human.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/pierro2009human.pdf</a>

\[32\] P. Pierro, D. Hernández, M. González-Fierro, L. Blasi, A. Milani, and C. Balaguer, "Humanoid Teleoperation System for Space Environments", *Advanced Robotics, 2009. ICAR 2009. International Conference on*, 2009, pp. 1-6. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/pierro2009humanoid.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/pierro2009humanoid.pdf</a>

\[33\] P. Pierro, M. González-Fierro, and C. Balaguer, "El Proyecto Europeo ROBOT@CWE: Advanced Robotic Systems in Future Collaborative Working Environments", *II Workshop de Robótica (ROBOT 2009)*, 2009.


## Scientific Journals

\[1\] M. González-Fierro, C. Monje, and C. Balaguer, "Fractional Control of a Humanoid Robot Reduced Model with Model Disturbances", *Journal of Cybernetics and Systems*, vol. 47, n.º 6, pp. 445-459, 2016. Available online: <a href="http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/01969722.2016.1187031" class="uri" class="uri">http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/01969722.2016.1187031</a>

\[2\] M. González-Fierro, D. Hernández, T. Nanayakkara, and C. Balaguer, "Behavior Sequencing Based on Demonstrations - a Case of a Humanoid Opening a Door While Walking", *Advanced Robotics*, vol. 29, n.º 5, pp. 315-329, 2015. Available online: <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01691864.2014.992955" class="uri" class="uri">http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01691864.2014.992955</a>

\[3\] M. González-Fierro, C. Balaguer, N. Swann, and T. Nanayakkara, "Full-Body Postural Control of a Humanoid Robot with Both Imitation Learning and Skill Innovation", *International Journal of Humanoid Robotics*, vol. 11, n.º 2, p. 1450012, 2014. Available online: <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1142/S0219843614500121" class="uri" class="uri">http://dx.doi.org/10.1142/S0219843614500121</a>

\[4\] J. G. Bueno, M. González-Fierro, L. Moreno, and C. Balaguer, "Facial Emotion Recognition and Adaptative Postural Reaction by a Humanoid based on Neural Evolution", *International Journal of Advanced Computer Science*, vol. 3, n.º 10, pp. 481-493, 2013. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/bueno2013facial.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/bueno2013facial.pdf</a>

\[5\] C. A. Monje, P. Pierro, T. Ramos, M. González-Fierro, and C. Balaguer, "Modeling and Simulation of the Humanoid Robot HOAP-3 in the OpenHRP3 Platform", *Cybernetics and Systems*, vol. 44, n.º 8, pp. 663-680, 2013. Available online: <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01969722.2013.832095" class="uri" class="uri">http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01969722.2013.832095</a>


## Thesis

\[1\] M. González-Fierro, "Humanoid Robot Control of Complex Postural Tasks Based on Learning From Demonstrations", *Ph.D. Thesis*, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, 2014. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2014thesis.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2014thesis.pdf</a>

\[2\] M. González-Fierro, "Dynamic Modeling of Humanoid Robots through Spatial Algebra (in Spanish)", *Master’s Thesis*, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, 2009. Available online: <a href="http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2009master.pdf" class="uri" class="uri">http://miguelgfierro.com/docs/gonzalez-fierro2009master.pdf</a>

\[3\] M. González-Fierro, "Execution of Collaborative Tasks on Robonova using FSRs (in Spanish)", *Master’s Thesis*, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, 2008.


## Blog posts

I have my [personal blog](https://miguelgfierro.com) where I write about artificial intelligence, machine learning, technical business and other random stuff that comes to my mind. The blog has been designed to mimic the appearance of a scientific paper. I did it that way to honor my scientific background. The code is open sourced and can be found in [this repo](https://github.com/miguelgfierro/sciblog).

Here there are some posts that attracted attention:

* [A Gentle Introduction to the Basics of Machine Learning](https://miguelgfierro.com/blog/2016/a-gentle-introduction-to-the-basics-of-machine-learning/).
* [A Gentle Introduction to Text Classification and Sentiment Analysis](https://miguelgfierro.com/blog/2017/a-gentle-introduction-to-text-classification-and-sentiment-analysis/).
* [How to Develop a Data Science Project using the Lean Startup Method](https://miguelgfierro.com/blog/2016/how-to-develop-a-data-science-project-using-the-lean-startup-method/).

I also contributed to other blog posts:

* [Comparing Deep Learning Frameworks: A Rosetta Stone Approach](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2018/03/14/comparing-deep-learning-frameworks-a-rosetta-stone-approach/)

* [Lessons Learned From Benchmarking Fast Machine Learning Algorithms](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2017/07/25/lessons-learned-benchmarking-fast-machine-learning-algorithms/)

* [Quick-Start Guide to the Data Science Bowl Lung Cancer Detection Challenge, Using Deep Learning, Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit and Azure GPU VMs](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2017/02/17/quick-start-guide-to-the-data-science-bowl-lung-cancer-detection-challenge-using-deep-learning-microsoft-cognitive-toolkit-and-azure-gpu-vms/)

* [Cloud-Scale Text Classification with Convolutional Neural Networks on Microsoft Azure](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2017/02/13/cloud-scale-text-classification-with-convolutional-neural-networks-on-microsoft-azure/)

* [Training Deep Neural Networks on ImageNet Using Microsoft R Server and Azure GPU VMs](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2016/11/15/imagenet-deep-neural-network-training-using-microsoft-r-server-and-azure-gpu-vms/)

* [Applying Deep Learning at Cloud Scale, with Microsoft R Server & Azure Data Lake](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2016/10/31/applying-cloud-deep-learning-at-scale-with-microsoft-r-server-azure-data-lake/)

* [Building Deep Neural Networks in the Cloud with Azure GPU VMs, MXNet and Microsoft R Server](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/machinelearning/2016/09/15/building-deep-neural-networks-in-the-cloud-with-azure-gpu-vms-mxnet-and-microsoft-r-server/)
